So we worked on the product model to make the save method more flexible
and now in the admin.js controller in post edit product, there we already have code where we find
a product by id and this will work because find by ID is a method I created in my model,
so here we have the product or maybe we should name it product data because here, I will now create a
new product constant by using my product constructor, so my own product class and there, I will pass
my updated title, my updated price, my updated image url and my updated description and my ID.
Now actually, we don't even need find by ID then anymore,
we can just get rid of that and for now also of that and simply create a new product with all the updated
information and we now also need to pass the product ID, there you just need to make sure that you create
a new mongodb objectid object.
So make sure that at the top of the file, you do actually require mongodb and now you can of course
also create a new constant, name it object ID or whatever you want and extract that objectid constructor
out of mongodb like this
and then you could just write new objectid and reference this basically, so we can now go down to post
edit product and pass a new objectid here with new objectid and wrap that Prod ID you're extracting
from the url here and wrap that or from the body of the request and wrap that into object ID.
Now we have that new product and now we can simply call product save because we just modified the save
method to support both creation and updating.
So let me save all of that
and let's give this a try.
Let's reload that view here maybe, change the price to 19.99 and click update product,
now we get a page not found,
let's ignore that for now and let's instead go back to mongodb compass and click that refresh
icon here. Now that doesn't look like it worked though right,
the price is unchanged but I also did not get an error,
so what's wrong here?
Well you need to go to your admin.js routes again and uncomment this post edit product route
otherwise editing products will not be possible.
So now if we load that product to edit again and we change that price, now this looks much better or at least
partly. If we have a look at mongodb compass, we see now it looks like I made a mistake with the
assignment of values, so my description and I can simply edit this here, my description
now simply was the url and the other way round,
so let me change both and click update here.
Now if we load this page again, it should work
but the most important thing is our method worked.
Now what did I mess up?
If I go to the admin controller, I'm assigning price, image url and description, well that is in
the wrong order,
it should first be the description and then the image url but that was only a little logical mistake
I made.
If I edit this again back to 12.99, you see now this is working and this also works,
let's see how it works if I edit two fields at the same time and
this also works.
So this is how we can update a product with the help of mongodb and with the help of update one.